# Leicester-City---Final-Tutorial-

## Introduction

The English Premier League (EPL) is the highest level of the English football league system. Founded in 1992, the EPL quickly surged to become the most popular and the most commercially successful football league in the world. It consists of 20 teams who compete for the league title and avoid relegation to the Championship.

The league boasts itself as the most competitive league in the world where any team can beat anyone. While only 6-teams, Manchester United, Manchester City, Chelsea, Arsenal, Tottenham Spurs, and Liverpool, can consistently finish in the top positions, that premise still holds. Leicester City's win of the English Premier League in the 2015/16 season is one of the most remarkable events of sports history. It is one of those rare and shocking sports events where a team wins a game or a trophy even when the odds are overwhelmingly against them. In Leicester's case, they had a 5000-to-1 chance of becoming the league champions. Their victory is even more impressive when the fact that only five teams have been named winners since the league's founding in 1992. Four of those teams, Manchester United, Manchester City, Chelsea, and Arsenal, outspend Leicester on payroll and transfers. Leicester has only about a quarter of the financial resources compared to those teams.

In this tutorial, we will look at the factors that led to Leicester's league title. Did they have an unstoppable attacking, a creative midfield, or an unbreakable defense? Were they aggressive? What kind of tactic did they use? Is Leicester's title win due to years of progression, or was it a special one-time event? Are they on the rise to be one of the top teams? We will gather football data to determine the team's performance and where they excelled.